add a section about push notifications (#883)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: en/help.md

  older than that.

## Instant message delivery and Push Notifications 

### What are Push Notifications? 

Push Notifications are notifications that reliably reach a user's mobile device
even if the app is not actively being used. 
Push Notifications are delivered by contacting central 

> Apple, Google or [microG](https://microg.org) servers. 

Author: this is addressed in the recent commits of @hpk42

Push Notifications work with all [chatmail](chatmail) servers on 

- iOS devices, by integrating with Apple Push Notification servers. 

- Android devices, by integrating with Google FCM Push Notification
  servers, including [microG](https://microg.org) mediated ones. 

> As of May 2024, classic e-mail servers do not support Push Notifications. 

Author: it is still a fact that may be interesting for users. 

imu, there is nothing that blocks classic e-mail servers to support XDELTAPUSH and there is also not a really-in-use standard way to do that, so XDELTAPUSH is as open as it can be

> ### Do i have to use Push Notifications on Android? 

Author: i changed that with the last commit, together with some whitespace fixes and another typo

It depends. Delta Chat Android is known to reliably notify about messages
even if you don't use Push Notifications if your settings don't prevent 
it from running in the background from time to time. 

> "De-googled" devices often work better in this respect

Author: current version of @hpk42 just says "Or worse, some Android vendors restrict apps heavily"

while "mass market" devices might be configured to quickly
kill any non-foreground app, see [dontkillmyapp.com](https://dontkillmyapp.com).

> If your device is capable and already connected to Apple, Google or microG servers

Author: this is addressed in the recent commits of @hpk42

we recommend to use Push Notifications 
just like you would do with Signal or other messengers. 

### How private are Delta Chat Push Notifications? 

Delta Chat Push Notification support is designed to avoid any leakage of private information. 
It does not leak e-mail, IP address or message content (not even encrypted) 

> to any system involved in the delivery of push noticications. 

Author: did so, this was the only one :)

  older than that.

## Instant message delivery and Push Notifications

> ### What are Push Notifications? How can i get instant message delivery? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What are Push Notifications? How can I get instant message delivery? 
```

Push Notifications are a technical mechanism to wake up inactive apps 
on incoming messages. 
They are delivered by Apple and Google servers (soon also Huawei and others likely)
to a device so that Delta Chat gets a chance to fetch messages for its user
and show notifications even if Delta Chat is currently inactive. 

Push Notifications work with all [chatmail](chatmail) servers on

- iOS devices, by integrating with Apple Push Notification servers.

- Android devices, by integrating with the Google FCM Push Notification
  servers, including on devices that use [microG](https://microg.org) 
  instead of proprietary Google code. 

As of May 2024, classic e-mail servers do not support Push Notifications
for Delta Chat users. 

### Are Push Notifications enabled on iOS devices? 

Yes, Delta Chat automatically uses Push Notifications for [chatmail](chatmail) profiles. 
Apple does otherwise not allow to fetch data if users are not actively using Delta Chat. 
Our [privacy-minimizing Push Notification system](#privacy-notifications)
does not expose data to Apple that it doesn't already have

> and is this thus enabled by default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so push notifications are enabled by default. 
```

> ### Are Push notifcications enabled / needed on Android devices? {#android-push}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Are Push notifications enabled / needed on Android devices? {#android-push}
```

  older than that.

## Instant message delivery and Push Notifications

### What are Push Notifications? How can i get instant message delivery? 

Push Notifications are a technical mechanism to wake up inactive apps 
on incoming messages. 
They are delivered by Apple and Google servers (soon also Huawei and others likely)
to a device so that Delta Chat gets a chance to fetch messages for its user
and show notifications even if Delta Chat is currently inactive. 

Push Notifications work with all [chatmail](chatmail) servers on

- iOS devices, by integrating with Apple Push Notification servers.

- Android devices, by integrating with the Google FCM Push Notification
  servers, including on devices that use [microG](https://microg.org) 
  instead of proprietary Google code. 

As of May 2024, classic e-mail servers do not support Push Notifications
for Delta Chat users. 

### Are Push Notifications enabled on iOS devices? 

Yes, Delta Chat automatically uses Push Notifications for [chatmail](chatmail) profiles. 
Apple does otherwise not allow to fetch data if users are not actively using Delta Chat. 

> As iOS app usage is anyway tracked by Apple and 

Author: this was reworded in one of the last commits of @hpk42

using Push notifications does not expose information that Apple doesn't anyway have,

> and is this thus enabled by default. 

Author: this is addressed in the recent commits of @adbenitez

  - ask to ignore battery optimisations: for users who want to receive messages all the time

### Does Delta Chat support "Push notifications"?

Yes, if you use [any chatmail server](chatmail),
Delta Chat tries to make use of push services that are running on your device anyways.

Some background:

Push notifications are notifications that reliably reach the user's device
even if the app is not actively being used for a while
and [killed by the system](https://dontkillmyapp.com).

Push notifications require the server pinging Apple, Google or [microG](https://microg.org).
Fortunately, all chatmail server support exactly that.

Note, that Delta Chat only makes use of Push notifications
if your device is anyways connected to Apple, Google or microG server.
As the push notification does not have any content,
no additional information is leaked.

If you are using an un-Googled device or a classic e-mail server,
Delta Chat automatically does _not_ use push notifications
and falls back to letting a background service run as good as possible.
Fortunately, these un-Google devices are often more permissively,
so that with the corresponding options enabled at "Settings / Notifications"

> even then you can get a reliable experience :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can get a reliable experience as well :)
```

not an important suggestion, just a wording which appeared less negative towards un-googled devices to me ;)
